hey guys welcome to my channel I
recently asked you what kind of topic
would you like to discuss in the next
video and I was super happy to find out
many of you are interested in studying
in the United States today's video is
gonna be about studying in the United
States and as you know I've been
admitted to an MA program in the
University of Florida with full
financial aid been admitted to masters
in marketing by Johns Hopkins with full
ride scholarship and have recently
graduated from a certificate program in
New York Film Academy in filmmaking so
today I wanted to share my knowledge on
how to get admitted to a university in
America with average level of English so
if you're interested please continue
watching this blog
now let's imagine you are somebody like
me so you have your first degree from
your own country I have my bachelor's
and master's degree from Russia you are
interested to study something new or
maybe to deepen your knowledge in what
you already know but you don't want to
go through the whole process of you know
getting admitted to rigorous master's
program where you have to take your GMAT
or Jerry way you have to write personal
statements get recommendations and apply
12 months prior at the start of your
program sometimes there are people who
like I don't want to do that I just want
to come to the United States and start
studying these programs that I'm gonna
talk about right now are for you these
programs are ghost certificate programs
and if you go to any good university
like UCLA for example they have an
extension school and they have those
certificate programs for international
students specifically why are they
specifically for international students
first you get an f1 visa second you get
an opt after you graduate and what does
opt mean opt is when you have a year
with a work permit so you can go and
work in the United States and gain this
work experience so the majority of UCLA
programs would have this opt the
funniest thing if you do your masters in
marketing for example you still get the
same one-year opt so basically in terms
of getting permit to work in the United
States after graduation master's and
marketing or certificate program
marketing would be the same another
thing is that many of these programs
have internships so you are able to work
for an American company while you study
so you graduate with a resume that says
you've pressured from UCLA and UCLA is
like top university in the United States
and when you come to an employer when
you show your resume I don't think
they're gonna spend too much time
finding out what kind of program that
was was it an MBA was it a certificate
program they're gonna see the name of a
good University which is a bonus and
they also gonna see that you've already
worked with somebody else because you've
had an internship and then you have this
work permission this makes this program
really perfect for those who don't want
to go through the process of admissions
the admissions for us itself for these
programs just taking TOEFL or IELTS and
if you will have two years of education
in English in an english-speaking
country you don't even have to take
those exams you just apply you know fill
in the application the same applies to
some other universities for example New
York Film Academy where I went they also
have one year long programs and
filmmaking in acting whatever but if you
want to take a short course like me like
a six week course unfortunately you
won't be able to get a work permit to
stay later after your course you would
need to leave the country once you're
finished because you can only get opt
when you study a full year another thing
that is really important to know about
those programs is that if we compare the
cost to masters programs master's
programs in the United States on average
like good master's program will cost
about $40,000 certificate programs would
cost around eight thousand dollars a
year but if you're a talented student if
you have high GPA good exam results then
there is a chance that you can get
scholarship to do your master's program
there are no scholarships or financial
aid to do a certificate program
another thing sometimes you just want to
come to the States for like a couple of
weeks or three weeks and do some short
really short courses maybe meanings and
the day you want to explore do something
else there are some amazing programs in
Stanford for example vehicleit's
continuing education you can take those
courses in anything basically so for
example what my friend is taking its
international expansion it costs $300
and in last two months but it's just
once a week so you go there and what's
amazing about them is that you get the
same environment you you are a student
in Stanford you can use their facilities
you hang out with students and you hang
out on campus Harvard has the same
programs MIT has the same program if you
have a choice if you have an opportunity
to come here and take something like
this I would say it's amazing but if
your English isn't immediate and you
don't think you will be able to
understand programs that talk about like
marketing human health or whatever may
be the best option be to start with a
language course language course is
something you can start even if you're
like a beginner but I would suggest
going to the United States to study
English when you're at least 3
intermediate because you're gonna be put
in this English language environment
and you would be only able to use your
English to communicate with people we
need to feel at least a little
comfortable to solve your problems in a
foreign language these courses are again
really cheap compared to master's
programs because a week would cost like
$250 and you can see all of the pricings
I will leave a link below website called
lingual trip that I developed you can
just compare all of the programs to see
the reviews if you are interested doing
the certificate programs or doing like a
master's program with a full funding I
will leave a link below to my book I
think this is one of the well I'm really
humble you know that but I think it's
one of the best resources when it comes
to getting admissions to the United
States because I've been through the
process myself and I've gone through all
of those exams and I know how it works
and it just described my process step by
step I described how I took the exams I
described to have a god full funding how
I found those universities and how
communicated with them so the link would
also be below and again if you're
interested in certificate programs we're
happy to help you with admissions like
Visa whatever you need to get in the
state so let's sum everything up
certificate programs first easier
admissions you just basically either
need to a Skype interview if it's a
short program or you need to take TOEFL
or IELTS second cheaper cost $8,000
$9,000 a year if it's a short program
like mine mine cost around $3,000 if
it's like a really short program then
could be like three or five hundred
dollars third financially unfortunately
not available so you will need to pay
everything yourself out-of-pocket make
sure you also calculate the living
expenses and the flight and the visa
fourth if your program is one year then
you get an opt so you can stay in a
country for a year and practice and get
real work experience v certificate
programs if they last a year they
include internships so you can work and
get experience and put it on your resume
which looks really great number six I
would say California and universities
are really famous for those longer opt
programs so look at UCLA look at UC
Davis looka at UC Santa Cruz if you're
interested in shorter program and you
want like a really good name of a
university you can lose stamp
Harvard MIT all of those universities
have these certificate programs that you
can take if your English is not good
enough yet if you feel that you are
intermediate or maybe pre intermediate
and maybe you would like to brush up
your language first then go to language
of dot-com and select a language course
and maybe after four weeks of a language
course you will be able to proceed and
take a certificate course in English
which is as I said a great option for
those who don't want to do the whole
masters or MBA process let me know guys
if this video was useful please like if
you're interested in the topic of
studying in the United States let me
know in comments below what program
interests you the most either its
bachelors masters MBA PhD language
course or certificate program let me
know down in comments below so the next
time I make the video about studying in
the United States I will look at your
comments and answer some of your
questions and if you're not yet
subscribed to my channel and you are
interested in America oh my god what do
you see the back you need to subscribe
because I released a lot of very useful
videos about studying in the United
States thank you so much for watching
this video and I will see you soon bye
[Music]